- Previously on
the affair...
- You guys are clearly having
some serious issues.
- No marriage is perfect.
- I could tell your wife.
- I have no idea
What you're talking about.
- How about ten grand
To make sure
helen never finds out?
- Can't help you out unless you
tell me what it's for.
- It's money.
- Okay, how much?
- Do you think he's anemic?
- No, the blood work was normal.
It seems like it was
just a panic attack.
- Helen, I can't
keep it from you.
I had a fling this summer.
- It is a destructive thing
for a waitress!
- You just see me
as potential unfulfilled.
- It was stuck
to the bottom of the pie box.
- Can I see it?
- You're screwing around.
- Cherry, please?
- After everything
He's done for you.
- You ever ask her
how she found out, huh?
Who told her to call the cops?
- Let's go.
- She saw you call the cops.
- Cole, come on.
- No, she wasn't even there.
You know who was there?
The guy she's fucking.
[grunts]
- do I know him?
- No.
- It's your problem.
You deal with it.
- Well, grandma's not
doing well at all.
I could feel it.
- Do you know a place
called "the end"?
- No, what is it?
- So you've never been?
- Never.
- Let's make a baby.
I want to start this part
over again.
- ♪ I was screaming
into the canyon ♪
♪ at the moment of my death
♪ the echo I created
♪ outlasted my last breath
♪ my voice,
it made an avalanche ♪
♪ and buried a man
I never knew ♪
♪ and when he died
♪ his widowed bride
met your daddy ♪
♪ and they made you
♪ I have only one thing to do
♪ and that's be the wave
that I am ♪
♪ and then sink
back into the ocean ♪
♪ I have only one thing to do
♪ and that's be the wave
that I am ♪
♪ and then sink
back into the ocean ♪
♪ I have only one thing to do
♪ and that's be the wave
that I am ♪
♪ and then sink
back into the ocean ♪
♪ sink back into the ocean
♪ sink back into the o
♪ sink back
into the ocean ♪
♪
[school bell ringing]
- So what are the names
of the two families
In romeo and juliet?
Anybody?
Anyone?
- The montagues and capulets?
- Montague and capulet.
Okay, great.
Why do they have to die?
- Uh, it's in the script,
mr. Solloway.
- I know it is, cherise,
but until the morning
After their wedding,
romeo and juliet is a comedy
In the classic sense
of the form.
So why do you think shakespeare
chose to change it up?
- 'cause he's soft.
[laughter]
- Okay.
Anybody else?
Keisha?
- Maybe they're just too happy.
- Okay, I'm interested.
Tell me more.
- Well, like,
the shit's not their fault,
He was all like,
"meet me 'hereth,'"
And she's like,
"I'll be 'thereth,'"
And then, like, her grandma--
- Yeah, the nurse.
- Yeah, and that freaky dude--
- The friar.
- They the ones who fuck it up.
[laughter]
- Right.
Absolutely right.
Why do they fuck it up?
[laughter]
- wow.
- 'cause they're old.
- They're old.
Right, they're old,
like me, they're adults,
And adults are imperfect.
Romeo and juliet are children.
They're innocents.
They never hurt anybody,
they never betrayed anybody,
So because they're innocents,
their love is pure.
But when the adults interfere,
Even though they're
trying to help,
Which both the nurse
and the friar are,
They end up corrupting
this perfect love.
What shakespeare's trying to say
is that pure love
Cannot sustain
in an imperfect world.
Okay, act iii, scene 4.
Hey.
- Hi.
- Sorry.
- That's okay.
They seated me.
- Mr. Solloway.
- Hey, jed, how are you?
- Good, teach.
Nice to see you again.
- Good to see you.
Wish he'd go to college.
- I thought he was in a band.
- Yeah, he is.
- Are they any good?
- No, they're terrible.
- I have news.
- Yeah?
Thanks.
- About the store.
They want to feature us
On the front page
of the Sunday style section.
- You're kidding.
- Nope.
- Baby, that's huge.
- I know.
- How did that happen?
- I don't know.
I--word of mouth, we had
a few celebrities in recently.
- We should celebrate.
- I know.
- I just wish I'd brought a gift
or something.
Oh, wait a second.
- What's that?
- It's for you.
Open it.
- Did you know?
- No, of course not.
- Oh, my gosh.
Wow, what's that for?
- I don't know.
Sticking it out?
- I don't think
we can afford this.
- Don't worry about it.
- No, I know
We can't afford it.
- Helen.
- We haven't paid off
the amex bill this month.
- Will you put it on?
- I think you should return it.
[clears throat]
- You serious?
- Really, yeah.
I don't need anymore jewelry.
I have plenty.
- Please.
- Nope.
What are you in the mood for?
- Hey.
- What's up?
- You busy?
- Just doing homework.
- That was my favorite book
when I was your age.
- I know.
You've told me many times.
- [chuckles]
So mom showed me
your report card.
- Fantastic.
- You want to tell me
what happened this semester?
- It got harder.
- Come on, you got a--
you got a b-minus in algebra.
You used to do algebra for fun
two years ago.
- I can't hear in class.
It's too crowded.
Everyone's talking at once.
- So...Move nearer
the front of the class.
- I can't do that.
All the girls sit up there.
- [sighs]
okay, well...
Why don't you go find mr. Reiner
after school,
And ask him for some extra help?
- Okay, sure.
- Will you do that?
- No.
- Why not?
- Because I'll get the shit
kicked out of me, dad.
If they find out
that I went in for extra help--
- Who's "they?"
- M-maybe I should just go
to private school next semester,
With whitney.
- Do you really want to do that?
- I don't know.
- I thought you wanted to go
to science and tech.
Isn't that what you told me?
- Yeah.
- So you changing your mind now?
Look, I-I know it gets
a little tough, okay, but...
You're getting
a real life education there,
Not some private school
fish bowl bullshit.
Just give it one more semester,
okay?
If you still hate it
at the end of this year, then...
I'll go have a conversation
with your grandfather.
Well, I won't have to.
Your mother will,
She's dying to.
Okay?
- Yeah, okay.
[knocking at the door]
- What's wrong?
- [gagging in the bathroom]
- you hear that?
- [retching]
- what's that sound?
- She's throwing up.
- Why, is she ill?
- I think she's bulimic.
- What?
- [retching]
- come on.
- Think about it.
Look at how thin she's gotten,
And she barely eats anything.
- Well, then what's she got
to throw up?
- What should we do?
- Let's go in there
And talk to her.
- No.
[toilet flushing]
did you not read
Any of the child psychology--
[door opening]
- What are you doing here?
- Nothing.
- Are you bulimic?
- Yes, mom.
Take me back to therapy.
[door slams]
- I really fucked that one up,
didn't I?
- It wasn't your finest hour.
- Yeah.
But we do need to nip it
in the bud.
You have no idea how dangerous
eating disorders are,
Trust me.
The longer she goes on,
The harder it's gonna be
for her to stop.
Is it my fault?
Did I somehow...Make her think
she had to be thin?
- No.
Probably spending the summer
with your fucking mother.
- Oh, don't call her that.
- You're right, I'm sorry.
- No, you're right, it probably
was my fucking mother.
I hope she's happy paying
for whitney's fucking therapy,
And I just found out she's
not even coming this weekend.
- To the benefit?
- Mm-hmm, she's going to a spa
With my aunt.
- Well, why do we have to go?
- Because somebody
has to be there for my dad.
It's a big deal, because it's
a lifetime achievement award,
And now I'm afraid
to leave whitney, because she--
- Don't you think
you may be overreacting?
- No, I don't think
I'm overreacting, I don't!
And you have lost the right
to say that to me.
You know,
we used to be a team.
- We still are.
- No, now we're just two idiots
That don't know how
to handle anything.
I don't know what to do,
because my daughter needs me.
And I feel like I have to talk
to her about what's going on,
And I think I could help her,
I just need some time,
And the store needs me because
the fucking new york times
Is coming on Monday, and it--
the place is a mess,
I need to clean and restock,
and I can't do any of that
If I have to go to montauk.
- So don't go.
- I can't leave my father alone.
I mean, it's a big deal,
What's happening there,
and if my mom isn't gonna go--
- You're not responsible
for the problems
In your parents' marriage,
helen.
- I understand that,
dr. Gunderson, it's just that...
Somebody needs to be there
if my mom's not gonna go.
- I'll go.
- What?
- I'll go
and support your father
And represent our family.
- No.
- Why not?
- Mm.
- Helen,
nothing is gonna happen.
I'm not gonna contact her.
I won't see her.
- Why should I believe you?
- Have I spoken to her
since this summer?
- I don't know.
- No.
- How would I know?
- No, not at all, never.
- Okay, fine, but that--
it's crazy for you
To go back to that place
without me, isn't it?
- Not necessarily.
- Do you know why--
[sighs]
Do you know why I married you?
- Because you loved me?
- I thought you were safe.
- Safe.
- Do you remember how quiet
you used to be?
You got paralyzed if there were
more than three people
In the conversation.
I mean, you only spoke to me.
Everyone else thought
you were mute.
And I--
I could have had anyone...
When I was young.
I'm sorry if that sounds crass,
but it's true.
[sighs]
and I chose you.
And I knew you were never
gonna be president
Or famous or rich,
but I didn't care about that,
Because I had
a rich, famous father
And he was
such a fucking asshole,
And you adored me.
I knew you would never cheat.
You wouldn't leave,
and you would be a good father,
And we would have a nice life,
And we would grow old
and die together,
And everyone would
talk about how lucky we are,
And what a smart choice I made.
[chuckles]
- Do you think any of this
is news to me?
Helen, I have been going
over and over this in my mind
For four months now.
Why did I do it?
What was I thinking?
I'm married
to the perfect woman.
I have a perfect life.
I'm--I'm fucking tired of it.
- [sighs]
- It's so hard living up to your
goddamn standards all the time.
I don't want to be the...
Envy of our friends.
I feel like a fraud.
I don't own our house.
I don't even clothe our kids.
- Of course you clothe our kids.
You're not unemployed.
- You send stacey's clothes
to the dry cleaners.
- The french ones, yeah.
- I think I wanted
to make a mistake.
I've never made
a single fucking mistake
In my whole goddamn life.
A person can't live like that.
- Well, congratulations,
you did it.
- Yeah, and now I'm sorry.
I am so fucking sorry.
And it had nothing to do
with her, it's not about her.
She could have been anyone.
- You know,
That doesn't
make me feel better!
- Please.
You have to forgive me.
I love you.
We've been coming here
for four months.
I've taken all your fury.
I walk out of here
every Friday
With my fucking underwear
on my head.
All I want is to move on.
Just let me go to montauk
for the weekend.
Let me fucking stand
next to your...Jackass father.
Let me do this for you.
Please.
- Have a lovely evening.
- Thanks.
- The recipient of this year's
lifetime achievement award,
Bruce butler.
[applause]
- Well, it's not the pulitzer,
but I suppose it's something.
[laughter]
Thank you.
[light jazz music and chatter]
♪
- More wine, sir?
- Fancy meeting you here.
- What are the chances?
I-I can't.
- I know.
- Hey, bruce.
- So how'd I do?
- You did great.
They loved you.
How's that knee?
- Oh.
It always bothers me more
in winter.
Good of you to come.
- Helen really wishes
she was here.
She just--we're just having
a bit of a crisis with whitney,
And she's
the more effective parent, so.
- Want to get some air?
- Not really.
It's freezing outside.
- Ah, come on, it'll put hair
on your chest.
So, was that her?
- I'm sorry?
- The one you were fucking
this summer?
Was that her?
- Helen told you?
- No, of course not.
Helen told her mother,
margaret told miranda,
Miranda told her sister
in ecuador, and I speak spanish.
So...Was that her?
- Well, it's been invigorating
talking to you, bruce, as usual.
- How's your book coming?
- It's fine.
- That's not what I hear.
Harry tells me you've been
quiet as a church mouse
Since you got home.
- I've been focused
On other things.
- Like what?
- Saving my marriage.
- Seems to me this girl
might have been your muse,
And now that she's gone,
you're afraid of the page.
You got to harness
that disappointment, son.
If you know how to use it,
you might actually
Produce something
worth reading this time.
- Why do you have to be
such a dick all the time, bruce?
- Years ago,
when helen was young,
Before I was famous,
I was a visiting professor
at the university of michigan
And I met this girl,
a student of mine.
She wasn't the prettiest girl
I'd ever seen,
But there was
something about her.
She...Lit me up.
I felt like I'd been
sleepwalking my whole life,
Then suddenly,
I was wide awake.
- So what happened?
- The semester ended.
I went home for the holidays.
We were living in greenwich
at the time,
And margaret had erected
this tree.
And I looked up at the tree,
and I thought about
What my tree would be like
with this girl.
I imagined some sad, little
potted thing
In her tiny apartment.
I thought about my little helen
coming to visit,
Sleeping in the closet
without any of her toys,
And I knew right then, I would
never go through with it.
- So that was it?
You just broke it off with her?
- Instead, I channeled it all
into my next book.
First time I was short-listed
for the pulitzer.
The only time.
- Send me something,
anything.
- Might be a while.
- Good ones always take time.
- Harry will drive me home.
We need to talk business.
Besides, I can't be seen
in that shitty car of yours.
- Understood.
I'll be right behind you.
I think I left my ticket.
- Which hospital?
Is she okay?
Oh.
Okay, when?
Yeah, okay.
[sighs]
shit.
- What's wrong?
- Nothing.
- Come on, tell me.
- My grandmother had
a heart attack.
- Oh, god.
- I have to be there,
But I-I don't have a car
and I can't get ahold of a taxi.
- I'll give you a lift.
- No, that's okay, I'll just--
I'll just keep calling.
It's fine.
- Come on.
- I need to get my coat.
[brakes squealing]
[gearshift clicks]
Will you come in with me?
- Won't your husband be there?
- No, I haven't told him.
- It's not my place.
- Well, thanks for the lift.
It's great seeing you again.
[car door closing]
- [grunting]
[wincing]
- Bruce?
- Jesus!
You fucking scared me, noah.
- Sorry.
Can I give you a hand?
- [sighs]
We got this goddamn chair
re-stuffed.
Now it sucks you in
like a whirlpool.
[grunts]
You took the long way home,
didn't you?
- You need help
going up the stairs?
- No, I've been sleeping
in my office.
I'm fine.
- Bruce?
That woman,
the student in michigan...
Do you ever think about her?
- Every fucking day.
- [groaning]
- Alison. Alison?
- Mm.
What are you doing here?
- I think she's about to go.
- What?
Oh, my god.
My--what do I do?
- Just go to her and hold her.
- What do I say?
- Say you love her.
Say everything's gonna be
all right.
You'll see her again.
- No, I can't, I can't.
- Yes, you can.
- Grams.
- Mm.
- There you are.
Um--
We're late.
How fast can you drive?
- Pretty fast.
- [sighs]
Oh.
[sniffs]
- Ladies and gentlemen,
we are pleased to present
To you tonight, author of
the best-selling novel descent,
Which will soon to be made
into a major motion picture--
Please welcome noah solloway.
[applause]
- Thank you, it's an honor
to be reading here tonight.
As I used to say as a teenager,
I can't promise
This will be any good,
but it will be quick.
[laughter]
- "they were driving fast.
"out of the corner of his eye,
he saw an old boat painted blue,
"resting on the side
of the road, dilapidated.
"rotting, as if the air itself
were corrosive.
Tall, pale grass grew wild
in its belly..."
[voice fades out]
[bell dings]
- come on.
You can't say "nothing."
you must want something.
- You can all do
the secret santa thing again
And just leave me out of it.
- Scrooge lockhart!
- Fine.
I want christmas dinner here,
with all of you.
- Is it christmas already?
- Oh, it's you.
We're celebrating.
You're finally off crutches.
- [laughs] wow.
Thanks, mom.
- Dad's old records.
- Garbage.
- Your old records.
[laughter]
- We should get one of
those stagers to come in
And make it look good
to rich people.
And bury a st. Joseph statue
in the yard.
Guaranteed bidding war.
- [chuckles]
Oh, that's baking powder.
You want baking soda, this one.
- How can you tell?
- Ali?
- I want to hang onto that.
Just stick it in my bedroom.
- Thank you.
- Of course, honey.
- Hal and I are planning
on traveling
Once the sale goes through.
- Where?
- Paris.
- Well, she--you know, she wants
to open a tattoo parlor.
- No kidding, where?
- I don't know,
Somewhere in the hamptons.
- She's gonna ink the stars.
[laughter]
- Well, I'm thinking about
going in on a club in the city.
- What a surprise.
- Yeah, what's that
supposed to mean?
- You've been going to the city
a lot these days.
- Yeah, because this place is
fucking claustrophobic
In the winter.
- I wouldn't cut the checks
just yet.
We haven't even put it
on the market.
Still got a ton of work
to do here.
- We don't have to do anything,
cole.
We could sell the place
tomorrow, as is.
- But we're not gonna do that.
- And why not?
- I don't want the new owner
to come in and tear it down,
And if it looks like a dump--
- dump?
- You've been in their houses.
You see how those people live.
There's an appraiser coming
tomorrow.
He'll let us know
where we stand.
After that, we can start
interviewing real estate agents.
- [laughs]
"interviewing agents." jesus.
- We need somebody
who understands the property,
Somebody who can market it.
This isn't a summer home.
It's a working ranch.
- So on the market when?
- I don't know,
sometime early spring?
- No, absolutely not.
Bullshit, overruled, done.
- Hey, cole.
Cole, look.
- Oh, my god, I forgot.
The bath upstairs,
I forgot to turn it off.
- Oh, shit.
- Oh, ma. Ma, I got it.
I got it, I got it.
- Need me to go get a bucket?
- Here.
- Oh, fuck!
- [gasps]
- Oh, boy.
- I know.
- [groans]
- You can't be serious.
She's in her 50s,
Miles away from senile.
You know, people forget things.
- Mm-mmm.
She doesn't.
Last week, she left a window
open in the rain,
And that blue rug
is completely ruined.
Before that, she backed herself
into a fencepost.
And what the fuck
was she even doing,
Running a bath before dinner?
- I don't know.
- I want to take her
to see a doctor.
- Why?
- Alzheimer's, early onset.
- [scoffs] no.
There's no way.
[sighs]
I'm just saying, I--
Look, I think she's trying
to slow down
The sale of the ranch.
Why would she do that,
alison?
- I don't know.
Just a feeling I had
When she said
she left the tub running.
It was weird.
- Well, that's exactly
What I'm saying,
something's wrong.
- [sighs]
ugh.
God, it's so fucking cold
in here.
- Get in here.
- Ooh!
Ugh.
- You want me
to stoke the fire?
- No.
You're like a human furnace.
- [laughs]
- Were you okay?
At dinner?
- Yeah.
Yeah, I was fine.
[laughing]
don't look at me like that.
That's your "I need to have
a discussion" face.
I have nightmares
about that face.
- What are you gonna do
with your share of the money?
- I'm gonna burn it, for fuel.
- [scoffs]
that's a bad idea.
I want you to buy something
you always wanted.
- I have everything
I always wanted...
Right here.
[both giggle]
- [grunts]
- oh.
- Thanks, babe.
- Hmm.
[phone ringing]
Hi, athena.
What?
Oh, my god.
What do you mean?
When?
Were you with her?
Which hospital?
Is she okay--
okay, calm down, I'm on my way.
- What happened?
- Grams had a heart attack.
- Oh, shit.
- She's in the I.C.U.
Look, I have to go.
- I'll drive you.
- No, it's okay.
My mother is there.
- They called your mother first?
- Yeah, I don't know why.
- You sure you don't want me
to come?
- No, you have
the appraiser coming.
- I can reschedule it.
- No, it's okay!
- Oh, thank god you're here.
I've been peppered
with questions.
- Why did they call you?
- Joan told them
to call her daughter.
- She meant me.
And what's this?
- Dennis, my daughter alison.
Alison, my friend dennis.
- It's a pleasure to meet you,
alison.
It's a real honor
to be in the presence
Of such a powerful
female lineage.
Please, let me know
if I can be of any service.
- Can you give us
some privacy, please?
- I'll be in the cafeteria.
- Thank you, sweetie.
- What did her e.K.G. Show
when she was admitted?
- I haven't had a--
- I'll come back
in a few minutes.
- That'd be great.
Thank you.
[door opening and closing]
- What was that about?
- You need to consent
to a d.N.R. Order.
- Excuse me?
She's--
- Okay, come with me.
Okay, she's been in decline
for a while now.
- She's stable.
- Yes, yes, at the moment,
But you mustn't cling to
the illusion of health, sweetie.
Her heart is an old heart,
And we need to honor
what is happening here,
And make this part of her
journey as peaceful as possible.
- Do you know what it means
if anything happens?
Anything?
They'll let her die!
If she chokes on a grape,
they won't save her.
- She's not gonna choke
on a grape
Because she eats baby food.
- Look, I know nothing
Would make you happier
than to be rid of her
So you can sail off to
some chakra sunset, guilt-free,
But she's my grandm--
- please, stop.
At times like these, we need
to act from our higher selves.
I'm getting a cup
of fucking tea.
- I'm looking for it.
Well, you're the appraiser.
Can't you tell?
No, the roof on the stable
is 11 years old.
Yeah, I know, I know, I know,
receipts.
What can I tell you?
My mother didn't keep
very good records.
She was a little busy
raising a family on her own.
Yeah.
Yeah, no, I get it, I get it.
Just give me a couple days.
Bye.
Sorry about that.
It's the appraiser.
How's your granny?
- She's okay.
I-I think she's okay.
She knows what's going on.
- That's a good sign, right?
- Mm.
Athena wants me to consent
to a d.N.R.
- Do not resuscitate.
- Do you think I should do it?
- I don't know, ali.
Do you want to?
- No.
- Then don't do it.
[sighs]
Appraiser's fucking useless.
He told me he can't
give me an estimate
Because he doesn't have comps,
but there are no other
200-year old working ranches
out in montauk,
Which is kind of the point.
Fucking idiot.
- Do you need the car later?
- Yeah, I got to run
Down to the hardware store
with caleb and get some tile.
Why?
- I have a catering job.
- Where?
- Boden hall.
Can you drop me?
- Yeah, of course I can.
What's the event?
- Don't know.
Don't care.
[shivers]
God.
I just can't get warm.
- What's happening tonight?
- A literary society, I think.
Some sort of award.
- For who?
- Oh, he's famous.
He wrote castle of man.
- Bruce butler?
- I think so.
- Whole kitchen's gluten-free,
I need you
To make sure there's no--
- nadine?
- Yes?
- Can I go home?
- W--no, why?
- I-I just--
I'm not feeling well.
- [scoffs]
I'm really understaffed
tonight, ali.
Can you take an advil
and power through?
I'll put you on coat check.
That way, you don't have to
move around very much.
- Okay.
- Thank you.
- Listen, did you get that?
Gluten-free.
- Thank you.
Ah, the man of the hour.
- I suppose so.
- Have a good night, mr. Butler.
- Miss?
Miss?
- Sorry.
Have a good night.
- Traitor.
- It's the only thing
I could find.
- Hi.
- Good to see you.
- You too.
I haven't smoked
since this summer.
No, really, I haven't.
- Okay.
So your family didn't come?
- No.
- Why not?
- Can we not talk
about my family?
- Sure.
- You look so beautiful.
- You know, things have been
good between cole and me lately.
Really good.
We're trying to get pregnant,
actually.
- That's wonderful.
- Yeah, it is.
- Well, I guess I should
Go back inside
before my absence is felt.
- Yeah.
Probably a good idea.
[cell phone ringing]
- Hello?
What?
Oh, okay, when?
Oh.
Yeah, okay, um--
I appreciate the ride.
- I can stay
and drive you home later.
- Take care, noah.
- Do you know what it looks like
To see a pit crew
of western medical professionals
Trying to jumpstart
a heart that's done?
Ribs were cracked!
Electricity--
- Stop, please.
- Her lungs, done.
Her kidneys, done.
Suddenly, everything is done.
It c--
- maybe you'd like to go
Into the family room?
- No, we wouldn't.
- Talk to the doctor, tell him
he can write the d.N.R. Order,
And get those machines off her.
- Why don't you do it?
- I'm not the fucking proxy.
- Well, I'll sign it
over to you right now.
Then you can do the dirty work.
Go ahead.
Go in there and pull the plug.
- Lucky you.
Here comes the calvary.
[exhales]
- Cafeteria's closed.
Vending machine.
- I should be with her.
I should be in her room.
- Well, a few minutes here
won't hurt.
If it's any comfort,
I remember how this feels.
My mother died in a hospital
just like this.
- You--
No, maybe I need to get
another doctor.
I-I-I could move her
to the city.
Or I could call a doctor I...
Used to know.
What if--
what if someone made a mistake?
You know, people die
because someone...
Should have known better--
- Maybe I'm out of line here,
but...
I know this pain...
Feels familiar.
But it's different.
She's not a child.
- I just--
I--
I need to know that I'm--
I'm not making a mistake.
- You're not.
You're not.
I know every cell in your body
wants to keep her alive, but...
Holding on to her
is not gonna bring him back.
Letting her go is
an act of compassion.
Feels like hell, but...
It's compassion.
- Did she have friends?
- Yes.
Lots.
If you want to plan a funeral,
I understand.
You know, she'd want
a service at her church,
But if you want
something casual after lunch--
- We're headed up to rhinebeck
in the morning.
- You can't wait a few days?
- The pathways out here
are too muddled for me.
I need to be someplace
I feel supported
In order to even start
the healing process.
Losing one's mother...
Whew.
It's such an archetypal wound.
- Yes.
It is.
- [chuckles]
- Have a great trip.
- Yeah.
- I love you.
- I love you too.
[car engine starts]
- I'm all-in, fuck it.
- All-in?
- See, that's what I was trying
to--I was trying to instigate.
- I got a made-up card.
- Yeah.
Stop throwing shit.
[laughter]
- seriously.
[indistinct chatter]
- Bringing me luck.
All right, turn 'em.
[chuckles]
[sniffs]
- As you know, we had to delay
this memorial service
Longer than we would have liked,
But today, we are here and
we will not dwell on tragedy.
Instead, we will remember
the life of our son,
Scott lockhart.
And if this crowd
is any indication,
He was greatly loved.
Let us pray.
Lord, make me
an instrument of thy peace.
Where there is hatred,
let me sow love.
Where there is injury, pardon.
Where there is doubt...
- Can you look something else
up for me?
Labor day.
- He didn't stay with us.
- I know, I know.
Try under cancellations.
- Okay.
Oh, wow, you're right.
There was a reservation
under "solloway."
It was canceled at 11:22 p.M.
- Thank you.
Have a good night.
- Mm-hmm.
Say, I got into a little
fender bender.
Do you know someone local
who can look at my car?
- Yeah, there's somebody
out here that everybody uses.
Let get his number.
[car engine starts]
[benjamin booker's
wicked waters]
- ♪ this must be where
I lose it all, darling ♪
♪ throw myself
into wicked waters ♪
♪ this must be where
I lose it all, darling ♪
♪ throw myself into
wicked water ♪
♪ well I'm tired
of feeling guilty ♪
♪ just don't wanna live
anymore ♪
♪ a new foundation,
a new foundation ♪
♪ I work until I fall down,
baby ♪
♪ then I'll work
a little bit more ♪